Document lighttpd configuration example from matrix.jaxlug.ngo (#19875)
element-hq/synapse: docs/reverse_proxy.md

[nginx](https://nginx.org/en/docs/http/ngx_http_proxy_module.html),
[Apache](https://httpd.apache.org/docs/current/mod/mod_proxy_http.html),
[Caddy](https://caddyserver.com/docs/quick-starts/reverse-proxy),

> [HAProxy](https://www.haproxy.org/) 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[HAProxy](https://www.haproxy.org/),
```

Author: Corrected

}
```

### lighttpd
```conf
server.modules = (
    "mod_rewrite",
    "mod_redirect",
    "mod_access",
    "mod_setenv",
    "mod_openssl",
    "mod_proxy",
    "mod_accesslog"
)

server.username      = "lighttpd"
server.groupname     = "lighttpd"

# leave commented out for proper IPv6 see below IPv4 0.0.0.0 & IPv6 [::]
#server.use-ipv6 = "enable"

ssl.pemfile = "/etc/lighttpd/cert+privkey.pem"
ssl.ca-file = "/etc/lighttpd/fullchain.pem"

$SERVER["socket"] == "0.0.0.0:80" { }
$SERVER["socket"] == "0.0.0.0:443" { ssl.engine = "enable" }
$SERVER["socket"] == "0.0.0.0:8448" { ssl.engine = "enable" }
$SERVER["socket"] == "[::]:80" { }
$SERVER["socket"] == "[::]:443" { ssl.engine = "enable" }
$SERVER["socket"] == "[::]:8448" {  ssl.engine = "enable" }

# both lighttpd and synapse need permissions for socket r/w

> $HTTP["url"] =~ "(/_matrix|_synapse/admin|/_synapse/client)" {

Reviewer: Good point. It would be best to encourage users to redirect HTTP traffic on port `80` to `443`:

```
$SERVER["socket"] == "0.0.0.0:80" {
    url.redirect = (
        "" => "https://${url.authority.noport}${url.path}${qsa}"
    )
}
$SERVER["socket"] == "[::]:80" {
    url.redirect = (
        "" => "https://${url.authority.noport}${url.path}${qsa}"
    )
}
```

> $HTTP["url"] =~ "(/_matrix|_synapse/admin|/_synapse/client)" {

Author: Roger that, I will make that change as well, I had left it open for Letsencrypt, but seems that you can redirect that to https per [best practices](https://letsencrypt.org/docs/allow-port-80/) so we are good there.

}
```

### lighttpd
```conf
server.modules = (
    "mod_rewrite",
    "mod_redirect",
    "mod_access",
    "mod_setenv",
    "mod_openssl",
    "mod_proxy",
    "mod_accesslog"
)

server.username      = "lighttpd"
server.groupname     = "lighttpd"

> #server.use-ipv6 = "enable"

Reviewer: If this is intended as "you can use IPv6 if you want!" comment, could you add a line saying so? Otherwise it comes across as dead code/accidentally left in.

Author: I added comment, you want to ensure that is commented out.

Reviewer: Thanks for adding a comment. I'm afraid I don't really understand what it's trying to say, however.

It appears to be saying:

```
# leave commented out.
# for proper IPv6, see below IPv4 0.0.0.0 & IPv6 [::]
#server.use-ipv6 = "enable"
```

Why does enabling `use-ipv6`... break IPv6? And if it does, shouldn't we be setting `server.use-ipv6` to `"disable"`, rather than relying on default config, which could change?

Author: It is some weird lighttpd thing, when you enable that, you must specify the individual IPv6 addresses rather than wildcard on all IPv6. It is slightly counter intuitive, as with that disabled, it is easy to wildcard, so you get say SLAAC and ULA without having to specify either, or if you want to, you enable that and serve on specific IPv6 addresses, as I understand it. You get warnings with the wildcard if that is enabled, what led me to disabling and leaving it commented out.

I agree, setting it to "disable" makes more sense in case upstream default changes, but given the issues I think its unlikely to change to being enabled, but cannot hurt. I will make such change in a stand alone commit, sorry about the force push, won't again.

$SERVER["socket"] == "0.0.0.0:80" {
}

ssl.pemfile = "/etc/lighttpd/cert+privkey.pem"
ssl.ca-file = "/etc/lighttpd/fullchain.pem"

$SERVER["socket"] == "0.0.0.0:443" {
    ssl.engine = "enable"
}

$SERVER["socket"] == "0.0.0.0:8448" {
    ssl.engine = "enable"
}

$SERVER["socket"] == "[::]:80" {
}

$SERVER["socket"] == "[::]:443" {
    ssl.engine = "enable"
}

$SERVER["socket"] == "[::]:8448" {
    ssl.engine = "enable"
}

# both lighttpd and synapse need permissions for socket r/w
$HTTP["url"] =~ "(/_matrix|/_synapse/client)" {
    proxy.balance = "hash"
    proxy.server = ( 
        "" => ( 
            "backend-socket" => (
                "host" => "/var/lib/synapse/main_public.sock",
                "port" => 0
            )
        )
    )
    proxy.forwarded = (
        "for" => 1,
        "proto" => 1,
        "host" => 1,
    )
}

> # serve json files as urls. is there a better way?

Reviewer: This looks fine (as someone who is only skimming the lighttpd docs).

I would just pop a `^` on the beginning and `$` on the end of the path regexes, so you don't rewrite `/.well-known/matrix/client/...` requests. (edit: looks like copilot's suggestion above does this already.)

You could also avoid duplication on the headers with:

```
url.rewrite-once = (
    "^/\.well-known/matrix/client$" =>
        "/.well-known/matrix/client.json",

    "^/\.well-known/matrix/server$" =>
        "/.well-known/matrix/server.json"
)

# This condition intentionally matches the post-rewrite URLs.
$HTTP["url"] =~ "^/\.well-known/matrix/(client|server)\.json$" {
    mimetype.assign = (
        ".json" => "application/json"
    )

    setenv.set-response-header = (
        "Access-Control-Allow-Origin" => "*"
    )
}
```

Author: Duplication avoided, thanks!

$HTTP["url"] =~ "/.well-known/matrix/client" {
     setenv.add-response-header = ("Access-Control-Allow-Origin" => "*")
     mimetype.assign = ("" => "application/json")
     url.rewrite = (
     "^/.well-known/matrix/client" => "/.well-known/matrix/client.json"
     )
}
$HTTP["url"] =~ "/.well-known/matrix/server" {
     setenv.add-response-header = ("Access-Control-Allow-Origin" => "*")
     mimetype.assign = ("" => "application/json")
     url.rewrite = (
     "^/.well-known/matrix/server" => "/.well-known/matrix/server.json"
     )

> }

Reviewer: I think it would make sense to separate this out (as it's not required) into a "Delegation example" section, similar to how it's been done in the `nginx`, `HAProxy` and other HTTP server configs.

Author: Separated

server.username      = "lighttpd"
server.groupname     = "lighttpd"

> # disable for wildcard IPv6 on all, enable for specific IPv6 addresses
> # see below IPv4 0.0.0.0 & IPv6 [::]

Reviewer: Cleaned up the comment a little bit:

```suggestion
# We set this to "disable" and use IPv6 `[::]` explicitly below,
# in order to listen on all incoming IPv6 addresses.
#
# If you only want to listen on specific IPv6 addresses, set this
# to "enable" and specify said addresses below.
```
